docs: add Developer document for Performance Profiling in zot (#128)
project-zot/project-zot.github.io: docs/developer-guide/pprofiling.md

> # Performance Profiling in zot

Reviewer: Instead of assets/profile001.gif 
Convert this into jpg or png

Rename this file and profiling-001.png

Reviewer: Rename assets/images/flame.svg and profiling-flame.svg

Author: Done

| cmdline | The command line invocation of the current program. |
| goroutine| Stack traces of all current goroutines. Use `debug=2` as a URL query parameter to export in the same format as an unrecovered panic. |
| heap | A sampling of memory allocations of live objects. You can specify the `gc` GET parameter to run GC before taking the heap sample. |
| mutex | Stack traces of holders of contended mutexes. |
| profile | CPU usage profile. You can specify the duration in the `seconds` URL query parameter. After receiving the profile file, use the `go tool pprof` command to investigate the profile. |
| threadcreate | Stack traces that led to the creation of new OS threads. |
| trace | A trace of execution of the current program. You can specify the duration in the `seconds` URL query parameter. After you get the trace file, use the `go tool trace` command to investigate the trace. |

To return an HTML-format profile list along with a count of currently available records for each profile, use the following API command: 

    /v2/_zot/pprof/

> :pencil2: If authentication is enabled, only an admin user can access this API.

> 

Reviewer: ## Supported Profile Types

`zot` incorporates [golang`s pprof package](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime/pprof) and therefore the following profile types are supported.

profile
heap
...

## How do I export profile data?

To collect and export any available profile, use the following API command format:

>     /v2/_zot/pprof/<profile-name>[?<query-parameters>]

Reviewer: <profile-type>

Author: Changed.

Author: Moved to "Articles" and added cross-ref links from other guides.

> The following example shows an API request for the CPU usage profile named `profile` using a collection window of 10 seconds:

Reviewer: ... assuming `zot` is running at localhost:8080

Reviewer: Or ...
unless specified, the examples and code snippets in this article assume zot running at localhost:8080

Author: Added note in the top section:  "All examples in this article assume that the zot registry is running at `localhost:8080`."

>     $ curl -s -v http://localhost:8080/v2/_zot/pprof/profile?seconds=10 > cpu10.prof

Reviewer: Drop the -v and all the curl logs below.

Reviewer: " > cpu.prof"

Author: Changes made.

    *   Trying 127.0.0.1:8080...
    * Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 8080 (#0)
    > GET /v2/_zot/pprof/profile?seconds=10 HTTP/1.1
    > Host: localhost:8080
    > User-Agent: curl/8.1.2
    > Accept: */*
    > 
    < HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    < Content-Disposition: attachment; filename="profile"
    < Content-Type: application/octet-stream
    < X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff
    < Date: Tue, 26 Sep 2023 17:01:28 GMT
    < Content-Length: 107
    < 
    { [107 bytes data]
    * Connection #0 to host localhost left intact

> This command creates an output data file named "cpu10.prof".

Reviewer: "cpu.prof"

Author: Done

The pprof package provides a variety of presentation formats for analyzing runtime performance.

For detailed information, see the [pprof documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime/pprof).

### Generating a pprof web presentation

When an HTTP port is specified as a command flag, the `go tool pprof` command installs and opens a local web server that provides a web interface for viewing and analyzing the profile data.  This example opens a localhost page at port 9090 for viewing the CPU usage data captured in the profile file named "cpu10.prof". 

    $ go tool pprof -http=:9090 cpu10.prof
    Serving web UI on http://localhost:9090

The pprof web view offers several options for viewing and interpreting the collected performance data.  Select VIEW to see the following options:

![pprof-view.jpg](../assets/images/pprof-view.jpg){width="300"}

A Flame Graph can be very useful for analyzing CPU usage:

![flame.svg](../assets/images/flame.svg){width="300"}

### Generating a graphic image

The pprof package can generate graphic representations of profile data in many formats. This example generates a GIF file representing the CPU usage in the "cpu10.prof" file.

>     $ go tool pprof -gif cpu10.prof

Reviewer: "cpu.prof"

Author: Done

    $ go tool pprof cpu10.prof
    Type: cpu
    Time: Sep 26, 2023 at 10:01am (PDT)
    Duration: 10s, Total samples = 10ms (  0.1%)
    Entering interactive mode (type "help" for commands, "o" for options)
    (pprof) top
    Showing nodes accounting for 10ms, 100% of 10ms total
        flat  flat%   sum%        cum   cum%
        10ms   100%   100%       10ms   100%  runtime.pthread_cond_signal
            0     0%   100%       10ms   100%  runtime.findRunnable
            0     0%   100%       10ms   100%  runtime.mcall
            0     0%   100%       10ms   100%  runtime.notewakeup
            0     0%   100%       10ms   100%  runtime.park_m
            0     0%   100%       10ms   100%  runtime.runSafePointFn
            0     0%   100%       10ms   100%  runtime.schedule
            0     0%   100%       10ms   100%  runtime.semawakeup
    (pprof)

!!! note "Documentation comments"

    Is this section helpful?  If so, it would be better to have more realistic data.

## Analyzing the trace profile using `go tool trace`

!!! note "Documentation comments"

    Is this section helpful? 

You can collect trace data with the `trace` profile, as in this example:

>       $ curl -s -v http://localhost:8080/v2/_zot/pprof/trace?seconds=10 > trace10.prof

Reviewer: "trace.prof"

Reviewer: Also standardize "seconds=30"

Author: Done

# Performance Profiling in zot

> :point_right: Use zot's built-in profiling tools to collect and analyze runtime performance.

> The profiling capabilities within zot allow a zot administrator to collect and export a range of diagnostic performance data such as CPU intensive function calls, memory allocations, and execution traces. The collected data can then be analyzed using go tools and a variety of available visualization tools.

Reviewer: would add a link from "administrator" to authN/authZ content

Author: Done: "...allow a zot [administrator](../articles/authn-authz.md) to collect..."

| allocs | A sampling of all past memory allocations. |
| block | Stack traces that led to blocking on synchronization primitives. |
| cmdline | The command line invocation of the current program. |
| goroutine| Stack traces of all current goroutines. Use `debug=2` as a URL query parameter to export in the same format as an unrecovered panic. |
| heap | A sampling of memory allocations of live objects. You can specify the `gc` GET parameter to run GC before taking the heap sample. |
| mutex | Stack traces of holders of contended mutexes. |
| profile | CPU usage profile. You can specify the duration in the `seconds` URL query parameter. After receiving the profile file, use the `go tool pprof` command to investigate the profile. |
| threadcreate | Stack traces that led to the creation of new OS threads. |
| trace | A trace of execution of the current program. You can specify the duration in the `seconds` URL query parameter. After you get the trace file, use the `go tool trace` command to investigate the trace. |

To return an HTML-format profile list along with a count of currently available records for each profile, use the following API command: 

    /v2/_zot/pprof/

> > :pencil2: You must be authenticated to access `/v2/` API commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> :pencil2: If you have authentication enabled, only an admin user can access this API.
```

Author: Done: "If authentication is enabled, only an admin user can access this API."

### Generating a pprof web presentation

When an HTTP port is specified as a command flag, the `go tool pprof` command installs and opens a local web server that provides a web interface for viewing and analyzing the profile data.  This example opens a localhost page at port 9090 for viewing the CPU usage data captured in the profile file named "cpu10.prof". 

    $ go tool pprof -http=:9090 cpu10.prof
    Serving web UI on http://localhost:9090

The pprof web view offers several options for viewing and interpreting the collected performance data.  Select VIEW to see the following options:

![pprof-view.jpg](../assets/images/pprof-view.jpg){width="300"}

A Flame Graph can be very useful for analyzing CPU usage:

![flame.svg](../assets/images/flame.svg){width="300"}

### Generating a graphic image

The pprof package can generate graphic representations of profile data in many formats. This example generates a GIF file representing the CPU usage in the "cpu10.prof" file.

    $ go tool pprof -gif cpu10.prof
    Generating report in profile001.gif

![profile001.gif](../assets/images/profile001.gif){width="300"}

!!! note "Documentation comments"

>     Is this section helpful?  Need a more interesting illustration (maybe Flame?)

Author: Need a more typical example, if possible.
